feat(api-docs): How to make an API public (#163)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/docs/api.mdx

---
title: "Making an API Public"
---

## Introduction

> In this document, we explain how you make an API public and the considerations you should take into account before you make it public.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document, we explain both how you make an API public and the considerations to take into account before doing so.
```

## Definitions

### Managed Client

> A managed client is one that Sentry controls, such as our frontend. In this type of client, we control both which endpoints are used and the attributes used by those endpoints.

Reviewer 2: front end is either 2 words or hyphenated

Reviewer: Sorry to pick a nit here - but frontend is our approved use - it's noted as one our tricky words.

> ### Partially managed client

Reviewer 2: nit: to follow the capitalization of the other headings, this should be Partially Managed Client

A partially-managed client is one that we only partially control, since we do not control the version of the client that is running for our users; for example, our Sentry CLI. While we control the endpoints the CLI uses, once the CLI is installed and running in a customer's implementation, we don't control the version of the client a user runs.

> ### Wild Client

Reviewer 3: External might be a better name here.

Author: Yea, had my doubts about "wild". I'll change to external.

A wild client is a client that Sentry does not control; for example, a script written by a customer run in their repository, or an integration written using the Integration Platform. For this type of client, we have no control over the endpoints they choose to use, nor can we require that they immediately update their endpoint.

### Private API

A private API is an undocumented API. Sentry can make breaking changes to this type of API, and no one will blink an eye.

### Public API

Our public API is documented at [https://docs.sentry.io/api/](https://docs.sentry.io/api/).

### Private Attributes in a Public Endpoint

You can have private attributes within a public endpoint.

As an example: [https://docs.sentry.io/api/teams/retrieve-a-team/](https://docs.sentry.io/api/teams/retrieve-a-team/). The response has multiple attributes:

```json
{
  "id": "2",
  "slug": "the-interstellar-jurisdiction"
  ...
}
```

Let's say we also return a `nickname` for a team. If what is returned is not documented as a response in our public documentation, that attribute is a private attribute within a public endpoint.

> ## API versioning

Reviewer 2: same here, capitalize Versioning. I see this in a lot of the headings so I won't comment on each one

Currently, Sentry's API is v0 and is considered to be in draft phase. While we don't expect our public endpoints to change greatly, keep in mind that our API is still under development.

## Making an endpoint public

> When you make an endpoint public, you're committing to always returning at least the set of defined attributes when that endpoint is called. As a result, the attribute(s) **cannot** **be removed** from an endpoint after they are public. Additionally, the type of the attribute **cannot** **be changed** once the attribute is public. The reason the attribute and its type cannot be changed is because both in the wild and managed clients are relying on the public attribute to return what is expected from that endpoint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you make an endpoint public, you're committing to always returning at least the set of defined attributes when that endpoint is called. As a result, the attribute(s) **cannot be removed** from an endpoint after they are public. Additionally, the type of the attribute **cannot be changed** once the attribute is public. The reason the attribute and its type cannot be changed is because both in the wild and managed clients are relying on the public attribute to return what is expected from that endpoint.
```

As a guide, use these questions:

1. Is the feature for which you're making the endpoint stable?
2. Will the API change substantially in the future?
3. Does the API offer value to customers who are accessing it?

If your answers are Yes, No and Yes, you're in business - make the API public.

## How to make an endpoint public?

We use [Open API Spec 3](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/) to write our API documentation. You can find that content here: [https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/tree/master/api-docs.](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/tree/master/api-docs) You can find the tests here: [https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/tree/master/tests/apidocs](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/tree/master/tests/apidocs).

Once you make changes to an endpoint and merge the change into Sentry, a Github Action will update the schema in [sentry-api-schema](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-api-schema) with a build version. To make your changes go live:

> 1. Get the latest SHA from sentry-api-schema.

Reviewer 2: you could link to https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-api-schema/commits/main to make it easier

> 2. Go to sentry-docs and update the SHA ([https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/blob/bf5a9463df40bf6e99685f14451c6e1313898b36/src/gatsby/config.ts#L187](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/blob/bf5a9463df40bf6e99685f14451c6e1313898b36/src/gatsby/config.ts#L187)).

Reviewer 2: oh I just noticed but this is going to change it looks like - https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/2425/files

Author: Yea that's fine. We can change this when that PR lands.

Want an endpoint to be public?

Look at the [issues on sentry with the `Component: API` label](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Component%3A+API%22). If a request has already been made to make the endpoint public, give it a thumbs up. If not, create a [feature request](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/issues/new?template=feature_request.md) on Sentry and add the `Component: API` label.

The team responsible for the endpoint will review the stability of the endpoint. If the endpoint will not have breaking changes in future, they can determine whether to make it public.

### FAQs

**When should an attribute be `required`?**

An attribute is `required` if it will always be returned by the API.

**What does it mean when a response doesn't have a schema?**

Some endpoints have no response schema. This means that while the endpoint is public, the attributes within that endpoint can change at any time. This is a relic from migrating the documentation from our prior approach. Note that, going forward, we recommend new endpoints always provide response schema.

**I have a question and it has not been answered.**

> No problem. Ping the Ecosystem Team.

Reviewer: Since we're making this public (alternate, provide an email address?)
```suggestion
No problem. Open an [issue on sentry with the `Component: API` label](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Component%3A+API%22) so we can answer your question.
```

Author: Yea I like email. Don't want to open the issues floodgate for this support just yet.
